Python in mantid (#28806)
mantidproject/mantid: docs/source/tutorials/python_in_mantid/further_alg_ws/05_settings.rst

.. _05_settings:

========
Settings
========

Mantid's main configuration occurs through files called properties files. There are two (3 on Linux) that allow customisation of Mantid (read in this order):

* Mantid.properties (found in the bin directory) - Default settings, replaced with each version of Mantid
* Mantid.system.properties (linux only) - System-wide settings for multi-user systems.
* Mantid.user.properties (found in the bin directory on Windows & in $HOME/.mantid on Linux) - User settings that will never be touched by a later version of Mantid.

The settings within these files occur as key-value pairs, i.e the default instrument is specified as

.. code-block:: python

	default.instrument = INST_NAME
	# Note, this is not a Python command

where INST_NAME would be the value of the default, for example 'LARMOR'.

All settings specified in these files are accessible via python through the config object, which can be imported from the mantid module. For example, to access the above setting do

.. code-block:: python

	from mantid import config
	 
	default_inst_name = config['default.instrument']

> It looks like and can be used just like a Python dictionary where the key on the left-hand side of the equals in the properties file is used to access the value in the "dictionary".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The config object behaves like a Python dictionary, where each setting in the properties file is used as a key to obtain its value from the config object. 
```

> The dictionary-like manner can also be used to update settings, i.e.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The dictionary-like manner can also be used to update settings, e.g.,
```
